# esri-gl Examples\n\nThis directory contains example applications demonstrating how to use the `esri-gl` library with different mapping frameworks and build tools.\n\n## Available Examples\n\n### MapLibre + React + TypeScript\n📁 **[maplibre-react-dynamic](./maplibre-react-dynamic/)**\n- Framework: React 18 with TypeScript\n- Mapping Library: MapLibre GL JS\n- Build Tool: Vite\n- Features: Dynamic layers, server-side labeling, styling, filtering, and feature identification\n\n## Running Examples\n\nEach example is a standalone project with its own dependencies:\n\n```bash\n# Navigate to an example\ncd examples/maplibre-react-dynamic\n\n# Install dependencies\nnpm install\n\n# Start development server\nnpm run dev\n```\n\n## Local Development with esri-gl\n\nIf you're developing esri-gl locally and want to test with these examples:\n\n### Option 1: npm link (Recommended)\n\n1. In the main esri-gl directory:\n   ```bash\n   npm run build\n   npm link\n   ```\n\n2. In the example directory:\n   ```bash\n   npm link esri-gl\n   npm run dev\n   ```\n\n### Option 2: File Path Dependency\n\nModify the example's `package.json`:\n\n```json\n{\n  \"dependencies\": {\n    \"esri-gl\": \"file:../../\",\n    // ... other dependencies\n  }\n}\n```\n\nThen run `npm install` in the example directory.\n\n## Contributing Examples\n\nWe welcome additional examples! When contributing:\n\n1. Create a new directory under `examples/`\n2. Use a descriptive name format: `{mapping-library}-{framework}-{feature}`\n3. Include a comprehensive README.md\n4. Ensure the example runs with `npm install && npm run dev`\n5. Use the latest stable versions of dependencies\n6. Add TypeScript support when possible\n7. Include proper error handling and loading states\n\n## Example Ideas\n\nSome ideas for additional examples:\n\n- `mapbox-vanilla-js` - Pure JavaScript with Mapbox GL JS\n- `maplibre-vue-composition` - Vue 3 with Composition API\n- `mapbox-angular-standalone` - Angular with standalone components\n- `maplibre-svelte-kit` - SvelteKit application\n- `mapbox-nextjs-app-router` - Next.js with App Router\n- `maplibre-electron-desktop` - Electron desktop application\n\n## License\n\nAll examples are provided under the MIT License, same as the main esri-gl library.\n